README.md, before:

# Keyboard Market Analyser for subreddit: r/mechmarket

## Purpose
A piece of code that allows one to analyse the secondary keyboard market via the subreddit: r/mechmarket.

You might want information on the prices of a keycap set you're looking to buy and/or sell and want to know if it's expensive/cheap, will it sell at a given price?

You might want to gather a load of information on some high-end keyboards and perform you're own data analysis for investments.

Whatever item you can search into r/mechmarket, you can search for it here quickly and have a record of it for you to play with.
	
## Setup
To run this project:

```
$ cd <Some directory you'd like to work from>
$ git clone https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket.git
$ You'll need loads of dependencies so get download each one via pip or use a virtual environment like anaconda and get downloading using pip. Most are included in the bash file `source requirements.sh`
$ For the reddit scraper to work, it'll need some reddit account details so put them into `login.json`. Best reference for how to get this is this youtube video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NRgfgtzIhBQ
$ Now you can do:
$ python KeyboardMarketAnalyser.py
```

## Usage:
1. `--PlotData` Argument, this creates a dataframe of sales of (and only of) the item from `--Keeb` as well as plotting them as a time series. This option is good for those that are only interesting in prices of a specific item in the keeb community or those who want a quick time series plot. As an example you might run:
```bash
python KeyboardMarketAnalyser.py --Keeb Polaris --PlotData
```
And you'll get several plots which will be automatically saved in `/Yourpath/Plots/POLARIS/*.png`. The first plot you will get is a visualisation of the correlation matrix:

![Image of correlation matrix](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/Polaris_correlation_matrix.png)

Which can also be found presented in the terminal:
```bash
INFO:root:Correlation matrix for the data ...
INFO:root:              Asking Price      Sold
Asking Price      1.000000  0.098962
Sold              0.098962  1.000000
```

The next three plots are essentially histograms of the main three variables:

![Image of sold hist](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/Polaris_sold_dist.png)
![Image of asking price hist](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/Polaris_asking_price_dist.png)
![Image of post location hist](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/Polaris_post_location_dist.png)

The final plot created is a time series distribution of the asking prices:

![Image of Polaris](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/polaris_sales_timeseries.png)

All the information plotted and more can be found directly printed in the terminal:
```bash
INFO:root:First 5 entries ...
INFO:root:   Post Location  Post Date       User  ... Sale Item Asking Price  Sold
8          US-TX 2020-04-15  t3_g210i0  ...   POLARIS        340.0  True
...

[5 rows x 7 columns]
INFO:root:The number of posts found is:	377
INFO:root:Correlation matrix for the data ...
INFO:root:              Asking Price      Sold
Asking Price      1.000000  0.098962
Sold              0.098962  1.000000
INFO:root:Stats for asking prices ...
INFO:root:       Asking Price
count    375.000000
mean     285.120000
std      229.103937
min        8.000000
25%       80.000000
50%      225.000000
75%      477.500000
max     1250.000000
INFO:root:How much data is in each column ...
INFO:root:Post Location    377
Post Date        377
...
Sold             377
dtype: int64
INFO:root:How many are sold ...
INFO:root:True     139
False    238
Name: Sold, dtype: int64
INFO:root:How many are sold as a ratio ...
INFO:root:True     0.3687
False    0.6313
Name: Sold, dtype: float64
INFO:root:Location density of the posts ...
INFO:root:US-CA    80
US-NY    54
...
```


2. `--SaveData` Argument, this outputs (via a csv file) a dataframe of sale information from mechmarket posts. This is good if you want to perform your own statistical analyses or machine learning. For example I might run:
```bash
python KeyboardMarketAnalyser.py --Keeb TGR Jane v2 --SaveData
```
Note, because some posts sell more than one item, we take all sale items regardless as we can filter later if need be so the output dataframe can be like:
```bash
  Post Location   Post Date       User                                                URL                 Sale Item  Asking Price   Sold
0          CA-ON  2019-09-07  t3_d0lnbr  https://www.reddit.com/r/mechmarket/comments/d...               TGR JANE V2        2400.0   True
1          US-CA  2020-06-17  t3_hadwwn  https://www.reddit.com/r/mechmarket/comments/h...              GMK NAUTILUS         350.0  False
...
Outputed file to:
/Yourpath/csv_data/TGR_Jane_v2.csv
Finished.
```

### Additional Argument Options
1. `--DebugKeeb` Which as the code searchs through and finds a good match, you can check it, use it for diagnostics plus other benefits you can think of
2. `--DataLimit` Which limits the number of searchs, so set it to 10 for example if you're debugging a problem as the reddit praw has a search data limit request
3. `--Debug` Changes the logging output from info to debug for more information
4. `--InputData` Allows you to use an existing csv dataset you've outputted from `--SaveData` such that you can do more analysis without the need for the additional rerunning of the dataset generation.

## Technical Info of the Code

So this a wrapper of the reddit praw api. It searches for [H]<Some item> [W] Paypal, and filters only the responses that are looking for payments over trades. I then take parse information from the title and the post body using regular expressions. For a post with multiple sales, we store all the sale items as we can remove them later if we don't need them. Note, for the plots, I write the price label in USD, which it most is but I have included a currency converter for any price adjustments from EUR and GBP too.

Commit message:

Initial commit for price prediction

README.md, after:

# Keyboard Market Analyser for subreddit: r/mechmarket

## Purpose
A piece of code that allows one to analyse the secondary keyboard market via the subreddit: r/mechmarket.

You might want information on the prices of a keycap set you're looking to buy and/or sell and want to know if it's expensive/cheap, will it sell at a given price?

You might want to gather a load of information on some high-end keyboards and perform you're own data analysis for investments.

Whatever item you can search into r/mechmarket, you can search for it here quickly and have a record of it for you to play with.
	
## Setup
To run this project:

```
$ cd <Some directory you'd like to work from>
$ git clone https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket.git
$ You'll need loads of dependencies so get download each one via pip or use a virtual environment like anaconda and get downloading using pip. Most are included in the bash file `source requirements.sh`
$ For the reddit scraper to work, it'll need some reddit account details so put them into `login.json`. Best reference for how to get this is this youtube video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NRgfgtzIhBQ
$ Now you can do:
$ python KeyboardMarketAnalyser.py
```

## Usage:
1. `--PlotData` Argument, this creates a dataframe of sales of (and only of) the item from `--Keeb` as well as plotting them as a time series. This option is good for those that are only interesting in prices of a specific item in the keeb community or those who want a quick time series plot. As an example you might run:
```bash
python KeyboardMarketAnalyser.py --Keeb Polaris --PlotData
```
And you'll get several plots which will be automatically saved in `/Yourpath/Plots/POLARIS/*.png`. The first plot you will get is a visualisation of the correlation matrix:

![Image of correlation matrix](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/Polaris_correlation_matrix.png)

Which can also be found presented in the terminal:
```bash
INFO:root:Correlation matrix for the data ...
INFO:root:              Asking Price      Sold
Asking Price      1.000000  0.098962
Sold              0.098962  1.000000
```

The next three plots are essentially histograms of the main three variables:

![Image of sold hist](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/Polaris_sold_dist.png)
![Image of asking price hist](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/Polaris_asking_price_dist.png)
![Image of post location hist](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/Polaris_post_location_dist.png)

The final plot created is a time series distribution of the asking prices:

![Image of Polaris](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/polaris_sales_timeseries.png)

All the information plotted and more can be found directly printed in the terminal:
```bash
INFO:root:First 5 entries ...
INFO:root:   Post Location  Post Date       User  ... Sale Item Asking Price  Sold
8          US-TX 2020-04-15  t3_g210i0  ...   POLARIS        340.0  True
...

[5 rows x 7 columns]
INFO:root:The number of posts found is:	377
INFO:root:Correlation matrix for the data ...
INFO:root:              Asking Price      Sold
Asking Price      1.000000  0.098962
Sold              0.098962  1.000000
INFO:root:Stats for asking prices ...
INFO:root:       Asking Price
count    375.000000
mean     285.120000
std      229.103937
min        8.000000
25%       80.000000
50%      225.000000
75%      477.500000
max     1250.000000
INFO:root:How much data is in each column ...
INFO:root:Post Location    377
Post Date        377
...
Sold             377
dtype: int64
INFO:root:How many are sold ...
INFO:root:True     139
False    238
Name: Sold, dtype: int64
INFO:root:How many are sold as a ratio ...
INFO:root:True     0.3687
False    0.6313
Name: Sold, dtype: float64
INFO:root:Location density of the posts ...
INFO:root:US-CA    80
US-NY    54
...
```


2. `--SaveData` Argument, this outputs (via a csv file) a dataframe of sale information from mechmarket posts. This is good if you want to perform your own statistical analyses or machine learning. For example I might run:
```bash
python KeyboardMarketAnalyser.py --Keeb TGR Jane v2 --SaveData
```
Note, because some posts sell more than one item, we take all sale items regardless as we can filter later if need be so the output dataframe can be like:
```bash
  Post Location   Post Date       User                                                URL                 Sale Item  Asking Price   Sold
0          CA-ON  2019-09-07  t3_d0lnbr  https://www.reddit.com/r/mechmarket/comments/d...               TGR JANE V2        2400.0   True
1          US-CA  2020-06-17  t3_hadwwn  https://www.reddit.com/r/mechmarket/comments/h...              GMK NAUTILUS         350.0  False
...
Outputed file to:
/Yourpath/csv_data/TGR_Jane_v2.csv
Finished.
```

3. `--DatePredict` Is an extension of the time series plot where linear regression is performed to the distribution such that the price can be forecast in the future. To do this with an existing csv dataset you would run:
```bash
python KeyboardMarketAnalyser.py --InputData csv_data/polaris.csv --DatePredict
```
You will then be prompted with an input question:
```bash
What date do you want to test? (in DD/MM/YYYY)
```
For example, I might type: 12/03/2023
With the result as:
```bash
Inputted test value: 2023-03-12
Predicted asking price ($): [[364.06264994]]
```
The fit can be debugged with the plot:
![Image of linear regression fit to time series distribution](https://github.com/jackhall14/KeyboardMarket/blob/master/Plots/polaris/polaris_timeseries_fit.png)

### Additional Argument Options
1. `--DebugKeeb` Which as the code searchs through and finds a good match, you can check it, use it for diagnostics plus other benefits you can think of
2. `--DataLimit` Which limits the number of searchs, so set it to 10 for example if you're debugging a problem as the reddit praw has a search data limit request
3. `--Debug` Changes the logging output from info to debug for more information
4. `--InputData` Allows you to use an existing csv dataset you've outputted from `--SaveData` such that you can do more analysis without the need for the additional rerunning of the dataset generation.

## Technical Info of the Code

So this a wrapper of the reddit praw api. It searches for [H]<Some item> [W] Paypal, and filters only the responses that are looking for payments over trades. I then take parse information from the title and the post body using regular expressions. For a post with multiple sales, we store all the sale items as we can remove them later if we don't need them. Note, for the plots, I write the price label in USD, which it most is but I have included a currency converter for any price adjustments from EUR and GBP too.
